January – February 2025
April 2025
Although global datasets like the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals are publicly available, they often remain cognitively inaccessible to general audiences. In 2025, only 53% of adults worldwide were considered digitally literate. This gap makes complex metrics feel distant and inaccessible—not only in understanding global issues but also in navigating data in our personal lives—leading to missed opportunities for awareness, education, and meaningful action.
Art of Visual Data (AoVD) tackles the challenge of making complex global data accessible and understandable. This project removes the cognitive barrier of complex data through an engaging visual storytelling, accessible UI/UX, and gamified learning. By translating abstract statistics into human-centered visuals, AoVD empowers users to not only understand data but care about it—building data literacy while connecting emotionally to real-world problems.
While exploring global datasets, I realized that statistics alone rarely drive change—people connect with stories, not spreadsheets. To make the data resonate, I designed a platform that transforms impactful SDG indicators into narrative-driven experiences.
Looking through the 17 Sustainable Development Goals dataset, I set out to connect five different indicators to build an honest narrative that seeks emotional connection. 

Emotionally engaging stories can improve information retention by up to 70%. When we incorporate emotion, statistics become much more than numbers—they become a story.
There is no such thing as information overload, 
just bad design.
Edward Tufte
There is no such thing as information overload, 
just bad design.
Edward Tufte
so what’s the story?
The Narrative
Children without legal identity (16.9.1) are often found in environments of low socioeconomic support (1.3), where they are disproportionately engaged in child labour (8.7.1) (regionally), which follows with a low quality of health (HIV, 3.3.1.c).
how do we communicate?
Early Challenges
The challenge would be to design a platform that presents a clear, unbiased statistical story by including all points of data (even with varying timelines), while creating an efficient way of consuming data that is both physically and cognitively accessible.
defining our users
Who are we designing for?
What’s up!
Pain Points

Difficulty translating raw datasets into clear, engaging reports and presentations.

Needs a way to make statistical information more accessible and easier to connect with.
Eris
I’m Eris, I study International Development at UofT!  I often need to pull statistics from datasets and translate them into reports and presentations. I’m also a visual & kinesthetic learner so I usually struggle with reading dense datasets.
Goals

Quickly identify key insights and explain the datasets and their story in depth.

Find tools or methods that make dense data easier to interpret for a visual and kinesthetic learner.
how’s life?
User Journey
I focused on the process of what it would be like for Eris to research and gather key insights on datasets for her university presentations. It examines how information overload and cognitive barriers hinder her ability and confidence in her research.
Eris
did you know...
Goal: trying to gather key insights about global issues for her school presentation.
The most common learning style is visual learning. Around 65% of the general population are considered visual learners!
Starting Research
Bouncing the web
Interpreting Data
Creating Report
Finding accurate statistics and global datasets for a report.
Returns to searching the internet
for websites with summarized data.
Digesting and comparing data with other sources. 
Turn findings into a presentation.


BONUS:

Heyo!
Pain Points

Finds it challenging to translate static data summaries into engaging stories.

Difficulty identifying patterns and relationships in datasets, making it harder to communicate insights.
Lewis
I’m Lewis, I work with local communities to raise awareness about child welfare issues. I often use data summaries to do my work, but it’s challenging for me to see patterns and relationships in datasets. I wish I could visualize how the data moves!
Goals

Find a way to visualize how data changes and connects over time.

Find a tool or method to compare data in a much more appealing and efficient way.